Thus far, we already had a look at what progressive web apps are, why we might want to use progressive
web apps or build them
and what we're going to build in this course. Now I want to have a look at the core building blocks, technologies
we use when building progress of web apps because thus far, we only had some buzzwords. We heard about
offline access and push notifications
but let's now really have a look at all the features we use and you'll learn about in this course when
building progressive web apps.
A core feature are service workers. Service workers are supported in modern browsers like Chrome and
service workers are basically Javascript running in a background process,
even if your application is closed. Service workers are a core building block because they allow us to
get offline access, to cache some files and serve them if we don't have internet connection and they
also give us access to other progressive web app related features
for example background synchronization, sending a request once internet connection is re-established,
we use service workers for that. Push notifications would be another example,
we use service workers for that because they are running in the background independent of currently
opened tabs. Service workers therefore are the core building block and I have a couple of modules
diving into all the different things you do with them, also advanced lectures, advanced modules, you'll
learn a ton about them in this course.
Service workers are not the only building block, whilst we can use them for offline access, background
synchronization, web push and more,
the application manifest is also an important building block.
You're going to learn about this in the next course module already, the application manifest makes your
application installable on home screens, not installed through App Store but instead, well you will see
it, you can basically install a web app and it then will do more than just open that webpage. A web manifest
is therefore super important and another feature you typically use or you use in any progressive web
app you are building
and then you can add more and more features.
Now besides the technology we use, responsive design is another core building block.
Now to be honest, I won't dive too much into it in this course because there already are whole courses
covering this out there and responsive design is something we're doing since a couple of years already.
So therefore, definitely make sure you know this and I will touch on it in this course
but I will focus on all the new technologies, all the things which aren't covered that well in the internet
yet. Now and then, there are other things like the geolocation API or the camera API, so that we can access
various native device features
and I will dive into that in this course too.
These are the core building blocks, in the end
always keep in mind progressive web app is just a term, it in its closest definition refers to an app which
uses service workers and has application manifest but it typically also means applications which are
responsive, which offer background sync, which uses web push and more and you're going to learn all that
in that course.